action-link-test.md, before:

# Action Link System Test Guide

## ✅ **Fixed Issues Summary**

### 1. **Security Module Created**
- ✅ Created `/lib/security/token.ts` with proper SHA-256 hashing
- ✅ Fixed all import references in API routes

### 2. **Redis Configuration Fixed**
- ✅ Fixed `lib/idempotency.ts` to use correct Redis client
- ✅ Consistent Redis configuration across all modules

### 3. **API Routes Fixed**
- ✅ Fixed missing return statement in consume route
- ✅ Fixed import path for `verifyTurnstile`
- ✅ Created `createSupabaseServerClient` function

### 4. **Enhanced Edge Function**
- ✅ Added comprehensive input validation
- ✅ Enhanced error handling and logging
- ✅ Improved rate limiting with fallbacks

## 🧪 **Testing Checklist**

### **Environment Variables Required**
\`\`\`bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_anon_key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your_service_role_key

# Redis/Upstash
KV_REST_API_URL=your_upstash_url
KV_REST_API_TOKEN=your_upstash_token

# Turnstile
NEXT_PUBLIC_TURNSTILE_SITE_KEY=your_site_key
TURNSTILE_SECRET_KEY=your_secret_key

# Email
RESEND_API_KEY=your_resend_key
FROM_EMAIL=AeroIQ <no-reply@aeroiq.io>

# App
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://your-domain.com
\`\`\`

### **Test Flow**

1. **Create Action Link**
   - Go to QuoteSummaryTab
   - Click "Publish Quote"
   - Verify email is sent
   - Check database for `action_link` record

2. **Verify Link**
   - Click link in email
   - Enter email address
   - Complete CAPTCHA
   - Verify access granted

3. **Consume Action**
   - Accept or decline quote
   - Verify response recorded
   - Check audit logs

### **Database Verification**
\`\`\`sql
-- Check action links
SELECT * FROM action_link ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 5;

-- Check audit logs
SELECT * FROM action_link_audit_log WHERE action LIKE 'action_link%' ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 10;

-- Check rate limits (if using Upstash)
SELECT * FROM rate_limits ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 10;
\`\`\`

## 🔒 **Security Features**

### **Rate Limiting**
- ✅ Per-IP: 20 requests/minute
- ✅ Per-token: 10 requests/10 minutes
- ✅ Per-email: 2 requests/10 seconds (edge function)

### **Input Validation**
- ✅ Token format validation
- ✅ Email format validation
- ✅ CAPTCHA verification
- ✅ UUID format validation

### **Audit Logging**
- ✅ All actions logged with IP and user agent
- ✅ Error conditions logged
- ✅ Rate limit violations tracked

### **Token Security**
- ✅ SHA-256 hashed tokens
- ✅ 32-byte random tokens
- ✅ Base64url encoding
- ✅ 24-hour expiration

## 🚀 **Performance Features**

### **Caching**
- ✅ Redis-based rate limiting
- ✅ Idempotency protection
- ✅ Deduplication guards

### **Error Handling**
- ✅ Graceful fallbacks
- ✅ Comprehensive error messages
- ✅ Retry mechanisms

### **Monitoring**
- ✅ Audit trail for all actions
- ✅ Rate limit tracking
- ✅ Error logging

## 📊 **Success Metrics**

- **Security Score**: 9/10 (up from 3/10)
- **Performance**: Optimized with Redis caching
- **Reliability**: Comprehensive error handling
- **Auditability**: Full action logging

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Deploy** the enhanced edge function
2. **Test** the complete flow end-to-end
3. **Monitor** rate limits and errors
4. **Set up** alerts for failures
5. **Monitor** success metrics

The action link system is now production-ready with enterprise-grade security and performance!

Commit message:

fix: resolve deployment blocker and JSX type error
Remove sensitive site key from docs and use server-side API;
Fix TypeScript lint error by importing React types.

#VERCEL_SKIP

Co-authored-by: undefined <undefined+undefined@users.noreply.github.com>

action-link-test.md, after:

# Action Link System Test Guide

## ✅ **Fixed Issues Summary**

### 1. **Security Module Created**
- ✅ Created `/lib/security/token.ts` with proper SHA-256 hashing
- ✅ Fixed all import references in API routes

### 2. **Redis Configuration Fixed**
- ✅ Fixed `lib/idempotency.ts` to use correct Redis client
- ✅ Consistent Redis configuration across all modules

### 3. **API Routes Fixed**
- ✅ Fixed missing return statement in consume route
- ✅ Fixed import path for `verifyTurnstile`
- ✅ Created `createSupabaseServerClient` function

### 4. **Enhanced Edge Function**
- ✅ Added comprehensive input validation
- ✅ Enhanced error handling and logging
- ✅ Improved rate limiting with fallbacks

## 🧪 **Testing Checklist**

### **Environment Variables Required**
\`\`\`bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_anon_key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your_service_role_key

# Redis/Upstash
KV_REST_API_URL=your_upstash_url
KV_REST_API_TOKEN=your_upstash_token

# Turnstile (Cloudflare CAPTCHA)
# Configure site key and secret key in Vercel dashboard

# Email
RESEND_API_KEY=your_resend_key
FROM_EMAIL=AeroIQ <no-reply@aeroiq.io>

# App
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://your-domain.com
\`\`\`

### **Test Flow**

1. **Create Action Link**
   - Go to QuoteSummaryTab
   - Click "Publish Quote"
   - Verify email is sent
   - Check database for `action_link` record

2. **Verify Link**
   - Click link in email
   - Enter email address
   - Complete CAPTCHA
   - Verify access granted

3. **Consume Action**
   - Accept or decline quote
   - Verify response recorded
   - Check audit logs

### **Database Verification**
\`\`\`sql
-- Check action links
SELECT * FROM action_link ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 5;

-- Check audit logs
SELECT * FROM action_link_audit_log WHERE action LIKE 'action_link%' ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 10;

-- Check rate limits (if using Upstash)
SELECT * FROM rate_limits ORDER BY created_at DESC LIMIT 10;
\`\`\`

## 🔒 **Security Features**

### **Rate Limiting**
- ✅ Per-IP: 20 requests/minute
- ✅ Per-token: 10 requests/10 minutes
- ✅ Per-email: 2 requests/10 seconds (edge function)

### **Input Validation**
- ✅ Token format validation
- ✅ Email format validation
- ✅ CAPTCHA verification
- ✅ UUID format validation

### **Audit Logging**
- ✅ All actions logged with IP and user agent
- ✅ Error conditions logged
- ✅ Rate limit violations tracked

### **Token Security**
- ✅ SHA-256 hashed tokens
- ✅ 32-byte random tokens
- ✅ Base64url encoding
- ✅ 24-hour expiration

## 🚀 **Performance Features**

### **Caching**
- ✅ Redis-based rate limiting
- ✅ Idempotency protection
- ✅ Deduplication guards

### **Error Handling**
- ✅ Graceful fallbacks
- ✅ Comprehensive error messages
- ✅ Retry mechanisms

### **Monitoring**
- ✅ Audit trail for all actions
- ✅ Rate limit tracking
- ✅ Error logging

## 📊 **Success Metrics**

- **Security Score**: 9/10 (up from 3/10)
- **Performance**: Optimized with Redis caching
- **Reliability**: Comprehensive error handling
- **Auditability**: Full action logging

## 🎯 **Next Steps**

1. **Deploy** the enhanced edge function
2. **Test** the complete flow end-to-end
3. **Monitor** rate limits and errors
4. **Set up** alerts for failures
5. **Monitor** success metrics

The action link system is now production-ready with enterprise-grade security and performance!
